# UCSD_Data_Mining_Certificate
Modern databases can contain massive volumes of data. Within this data lies important information that can only be effectively analyzed using data mining. Data mining tools and techniques can be used to predict future trends and behaviors, allowing individuals and organizations to make proactive, knowledge-driven decisions. This expanded Data Mining for Advanced Analytics certificate provides individuals with the skills necessary to design, build, verify, and test predictive data models.

Newly updated with added data sets, a robust practicum course, a survey of popular data mining tools, and additional algorithms, this program equips students with the skills to make data-driven decisions in any industry. Students begin by learning foundational data analysis and machine learning techniques for model and knowledge creation. Then students take a deep-dive into the crucial step of cleaning, filtering, and preparing the data for mining and predictive or descriptive modeling.

Building upon the skills learned in the previous courses, students will then learn advanced models, machine learning algorithms, methods, and applications. In the practicum course, students will use real-life data sets from various industries to complete data mining projects, planning and executing all the steps of data preparation, analysis, learning and modeling, and identifying the predictive/descriptive model that produces the best evaluation scores. Electives allow students to learn further high-demand techniques, tools, and languages.
